(Note: This document is a copy of the text that appears in the
program's help section.)


1. Rules of the Game

The card layout consists of three areas:

* the four foundations at top left;
* the four reserves at top right; and
* the eight columns of the tableau.

The game begins with the complete deck being dealt to the tableau,
face up. The object of the game is to move all of the cards onto the
four foundations.

The foundations are to be built up, from Ace to King, in suit. A card
can only be moved to a foundation if the next lower card of the same
suit is already moved there (or if it is an Ace being moved onto an
empty foundation).

Each of the four reserves can temporarily hold any one card. Cards in
the reserve can always be moved, but cannot be built upon.

In the tableau, only the last-played card in each column is available
to move. In addition, the last card in each column can be built upon,
but only going downwards and staying in suit.

For example, if the 3 of clubs was available to move, it could be
moved onto a tableau column only if the 4 of clubs was the last card
in that column. Or, it could be moved to the clubs' foundation pile, if
the 2 of clubs had already been moved there. If neither of these are
possible, the card could still be moved to any empty reserve.

If a tableau column is emptied of cards, any available card can then
be played there.

Since it is never detrimental to do so, the program will automatically
move cards onto the foundations once it becomes possible to do so.
However, if you find it distracting, you can turn this off via the
options menu.

At any time, you can leave a game and return to the initial display of
the list of available games. Your move history (and solution, if any)
will be remembered, and if you return to the game at a later time you
can use the redo command to pick up where you left off.


2. How to Play (graphical interface)

To move a card, simply click on it with the left mouse button. If the
card has a legal move, it will be made.

If there is more than one legal move, the program will choose one. The
program will generally prefer moves that maximize your options (such
as moving a card to an empty tableau column rather than an empty
reserve, since the former can also be built upon).

You can select an alternate destination for your move by using the
right mouse button instead, or by holding down the Shift key while
clicking the left mouse button.

Alternately, you can move cards using the keyboard. Tableau cards can
be moved with the letter keys A through H, for the eight columns going
from left to right. Cards in the reserve can be moved with the letter
keys I through L, again going from left to right. As with the mouse,
you can select an alternate destination by holding down Shift while
pressing a letter key.

These letters will also appear underneath cards after undoing a move,
to indicate which move the redo command will execute. A move is
represented as a lower case letter on the left-hand side, or as an
uppercase letter on the right-hand side for a move to the alternate
destination.

As you are playing, the current number of moves is displayed in the
top right corner.

If at any time no legal moves are available, a U-turn icon will appear
at the top of the layout, and you will need to use undo in order to
proceed. When you complete a game, a checkered-flag icon will appear
instead. (You can use undo in this situation as well, if you wish to
try to improve your answer. Otherwise, just use the back button in the
bottom right corner to return to the game selection display.)

If you are playing a game that you have already solved, then the
number of moves in your answer will be displayed at bottom right, so
that you can see the number you are trying to beat. Directly below
that, the number of moves in the shortest possible answer is shown, so
that you can also see how much room there is for improvement.

The button with the gear icon will open a popup box that will allow
you to change some of the game's settings. You can turn card movement
on or off, and some other cosmetic features. You can also turn on the
branching redo feature from here.


3. Branching Redo

By default, the game provides the familiar undo and redo commands.
However, from the options menu you can choose to enable the branching
redo feature, which provides a fuller set of commands.

When the branching redo feature is enabled, the game will maintain a
complete history of all moves made. When you use undo to return to a
previous state and then try another set of moves going forward, the
game will still remember the old moves. So if you later use undo to
return to this point again, either path will be available to be
redone.

You can see when there are multiple paths forward because more than
one card will have redoable moves displayed underneath. By default,
the redo command will choose the most recently visited move, but you
can visit the other path by specifying the other move directly.

The branching redo feature is most useful after you have solved a game
and you wish to improve upon your answer. It allows you to revisit
your moves and experiment with changes at any point, while still
keeping your working answer intact.

When you are revisiting a solved game, the moves that are part of an
answer are displayed differently: instead of a letter, the move is
represented by the total number of moves in the answer. This allows
you to more easily see which moves are part of shorter answers.

Sometimes while trying a new sequence of moves, you will return to a
point you had already reached via a different path. In that case, an
indicator will appear below your current move count, showing the
number of moves in the other path. When the other path is shorter, you
can switch over to that path if you choose. If, on the other hand,
your newer path is the shorter one, then the game will automatically
update your history to prefer this newer path. If you have already
solved this game, and this change creates a new, shorter answer, then
it will immediately be saved as your current best answer.

In addition to the above commands, the program also allows you to
bookmark any point in your history, so that you can easily return to
it again. When you do this, a bookmark indicator will appear on the
right-hand side of the display. You can also jump back and forth
between your current position and a bookmarked position.

See the list of redo key commands for more information.


4. Credits and License

Copyright (C) 2017-2021 Brian Raiter <breadbox@muppetlabs.com>
License: GNU GPL version 3 or later; see <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

This program is written by Brian Raiter. It is based on the original
Windows program, which was written by Peter Liepa. The configurations
were created by Peter Liepa, with assistance from Bert van
Oortmarssen, and are used here with their permission.

The rules of Brain Jam are based on "Baker's Game", as described by
Martin Gardner in the June 1968 issue of Scientific American.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
